Norms for Inter College Transfer (B.Tech 2019 Regulations) 1. Inter college transfer shall be applicable only for regular B. Tech students. 2. The transfer shall be permitted just before the commencement of third semester. 3. The transfer shall be with effect from the first working day of the third semester. 4. The transfer shall be only within the sanctioned strength of the receiving college. 5. The following Category of students shall not be eligible for inter college transfer I. Govt. of India Nominee. II. Management Quota in Aided colleges. III. Management Quota in private Self Financing Colleges IV. Students admitted under NRI/PIO quota. V. Lateral Entry students. VI. Students admitted under TFW Scheme. VII. Students admitted in any supernumerary seats. VIII. Any other category which are ineligible as per the conditions for admission prescribed by Govt. of Kerala/Govt. of India. IX. Inter College Transfer shall not be permitted to and from autonomous colleges. 6. The transfer shall be permitted: I. Between Govt/ Govt. Aided Colleges. II. Between Self – Financing Colleges (Including Govt. Controlled SFC). 7. Notification inviting application for inter college transfer shall be issued by the University just before the commencement of the third semester and transfer will be permitted based on the schedule notified herewith. 8.The candidate should fulfill the academic eligibility requirement for promotion to the third semester. 9. If the number of applicants is more than the vacant seats available, the transfer may be based on the Kerala Engineering Entrance Rank. 10.The students shall opt only one college for inter college transfer. 11.The selected candidates shall remit a fee of Rs 3000/- (No fee for SC/ST students) within the stipulated date to the University. However, this rule is not applicable to the students transferred to other institutes under “Shift College” University order. 12.The College transfer once approved by the receiving college will be final and binding on the applicant. No student will be permitted, under any circumstances, to refuse the change of college once offered. Procedure for College Transfer (Student seeks a transfer from College A to College B) Step 1 : Submit a request for transfer to the Principal where he/she is presently studying (College A)\n\n---CHUNK---\n\nStep 2 : The principal of college A may or may not recommend the transfer. Once recommended, the recommendation cannot be reversed and hence the Principal of college A has to relieve the student, if the student gets the transfer to college B. Step 3: The Principal of college B shall publish the number of students that can be admitted based on the availability of vacant seats and based on the norms published by the University. Step 4 : Principal A relieves the student if he/she is selected by college B with necessary entries in the KTU portal. Step 5: Principal B admits the student in College B with necessary entries in the KTU portal. Step 6: Student remits the fee to the University. The Principals of all the affiliated colleges are requested to take utmost caution in uploading the requests for college transfer in the University portal strictly adhering to the provisions envisaged in the B.Tech 2019 regulations regarding the same. Dr. Sadiq A. Dean (Academic) * This is a computer system (Digital File) generated letter. Hence there is no need for a physical signature.\n\n---CHUNK---\n\nAPJ ABDUL KALAM TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY PROFORMA FOR INTERCOLLEGIATE TRANSFER B.Tech S3 (B.Tech 2019 Regulations) ( To be Submitted to the present and opted colleges) 1. Name of Student : 2. KTU Student ID : 3. a) College of Present Study : b) Branch of Study and semester: c) Type of Institution: Goverment Government Aided Self Financing 4. Details of College to which transfer is sought a) Name of the College : b) Nature of affiliation: Government Government Aided Self-Financing 5. Do you belong to any of the following category? Govt. of India Nominee Management Quota in Aided Colleges Management Quota in private Self Financing Colleges Admitted under NRI/PIO quota. Lateral Entry student. Admitted under TFW Scheme. Admitted in any supernumerary seats. Any other category which are ineligible for transfer as per the conditions for admission prescribed by Govt of Kerala / Govt. of India. Details of Academic Performance 6. Details of Academic Performance Rank in the Kerala Engineering Entrance Examination B.Tech Examinations S1 S2 Have you passed in all subjects (YES/NO) GPA/SGPA Obtained\n\n---CHUNK---\n\n7. Father / Guardian’s Name: 8. Communication Address: Email: Mobile: Land Line: Signature of Student: Signature of Guardian: 9. Recommendation from Principals College of Present Study College to which admission sought Name of College: Name of College: Recommended Not Recommended Recommended Not Recommended Remarks: Remarks: Name of Principal: Name of Principal: Signature of Principal: Signature of Principal: Date: Date: Relieved the Student: Yes Upload the data in KTU portal :Yes Signature of Principal: Date: Admitted the Student: Yes Upload the data in KTU portal :Yes Signature of Principal: Date: College Seal: College Seal (To be uploaded in KTU portal after completion of transfer.)